Jenkins scripts DSL docs (#922)
gazebo-tooling/release-tools: jenkins-scripts/README.md

# Jenkins scripts

> We use [DSL Jenkins plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/job-dsl/) to allow us to manage and define the jobs as human readable code. You can find the different job configs under the [`dsl`](./dsl/) folder. 

Reviewer: Nitpick: real reason to use the DSL jenkins code is the ability to programmatically generate the job configuration (configuration as code).

Reviewer: Nitpick II: I try to avoid the first person when writing docs, something like: "The release-tools repository uses the DSL Jenkins plugin...".

## Useful links
- [List of installed plugins in Jenkins](https://github.com/osrf/chef-osrf/blob/latest/cookbooks/osrfbuild/attributes/plugins.rb)
- [Jenkins DSL API docs](https://jenkinsci.github.io/job-dsl-plugin/)
- [Jenkins DSL Wiki](https://github.com/jenkinsci/job-dsl-plugin/wiki) 

## Local testing

To test locally the build of the different `dsl` jobs you need the following: 

> 1. Download `job_dsl-core.standalone.jar` to be able to build the dsl jobs locally.  [Download here](https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/artifactory/releases/org/jenkins-ci/plugins/job-dsl-core/1.77/)

Reviewer: May be a good moment to suggest to the use same exact version that the server is shipping and link the relevant resource: this one https://github.com/osrf/chef-osrf/blob/latest/cookbooks/osrfbuild/attributes/plugins.rb#L70

2. Add the downloaded file to a folder not tracked in the repo.
3. In the terminal execute: 
``` bash
java -jar `PATH/job_dsl-core.jar` `PATH/job_name.dsl`
```
For more information go [here](https://github.com/jenkinsci/job-dsl-plugin/wiki/User-Power-Moves#run-a-dsl-script-locally).

## Development workflow

1. Make changes locally and test that it builds correctly.
2. Push changes to a specific branch in `release-tools`

> 3. Go to seed job for the job you wanna test (usually you would use `_dsl_test` to not affect the jobs in production) and build with the parameter pointing to your new custom branch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to seed job for the job you wanna test (usually you would use [`_dsl_test`](https://build.osrfoundation.org/job/_dsl_test/) to not affect the jobs in production) and build with the parameter pointing to your new custom branch in the `RTOOLS_BRANCH` parameter. 
```

4. After it builds correctly, you will have generated jobs with the changes you implemented. You can use and modify the generated job. 

> WARNING! : Running the _dsl job for a specific job that it's not `test` will modify the configuration for production. You should always aim to utilize `test` jobs. 

## :arrow_forward: Playbook

### XML injection into DSL 

> Sometimes we find a situation where we have a plugin installed that it's not mapped to DSL and you may think: How can I use this plugin?. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to deal with plugins that do not implement the DSL layer and don't provide a DSL API?
```
Minor change to make the docs a bit more formal by removing first person.
